README.md, before:

# Vivarni.CBE

A simple, practical solution to import and synchronize KBO/BCE/CBE data into your own database (e.g., SQL Server, Postgres, Sqlite, ...). It provides clear source abstractions, extensible storage backends, and synchronization state tracking so your enterprise registers stay reliably up to date. CBE stands for Belgium’s Crossroads Bank for Enterprises and is also known as:

 * Dutch: _Kruispuntbank van Ondernemingen_ 
 * French: _Banque-Carrefour des Entreprises_
 * German: _Zentrale Datenbank der Unternehmen_

The data provided by the CBE is public available at; you simply need an account on the official website to access and download the datasets. Official federal governement website for CBE Open Data: [https://economie.fgov.be/](https://economie.fgov.be/en/themes/enterprises/crossroads-bank-enterprises/services-everyone/public-data-available-reuse/cbe-open-data)

Want to experiment without your own DB? See the sample projects in `sample/`. It demonstrates an end-to-end flow on a local SQLite and Postgres database!

## Features ✨

- 📂 Data Sources: file system and HTTP providers for CBE Open Data.
- 🗄️ Storage Backends: interfaces and implementations for relational DBs (SQL Server, Sqlite).
- 🧩 Easy extensibility to other database types via the `ICbeDataStorage` interface.
- 🧬 Schema & Entities: strongly-typed `Entities` with mappings and descriptors.
- 🔄 Synchronization State: import tracking via `ICbeSynchronisationStateRegistry` implementations.
- 🖥️ A sample application showing end-to-end flow.

## Quickstart 🚀

### 1. Get the data
Create an account on the [official CBE website](https://economie.fgov.be/en/themes/enterprises/crossroads-bank-enterprises/services-everyone/public-data-available-reuse/cbe-open-data). With username/password you can download the public open data.

### 2. Install via NuGet
Consume the package from your own solution via NuGet.

```bash
dotnet add package Vivarni.CBE
dotnet add package Vivarni.CBE.SqlServer # if you're using SQL Server
dotnet add package Vivarni.CBE.Postgres  # if you're using Postgres
dotnet add package Vivarni.CBE.Sqlite    # if you're using Sqlite
```

### 3. Example (Sqlite)

Configure services and run a sync. Adjust connection string, schema, and source for your environment. You can then

```csharp
using Microsoft.Data.Sqlite;
using Microsoft.Extensions.DependencyInjection;
using Vivarni.CBE;
using Vivarni.CBE.Sqlite;

// Configure Vivarni.CBE with the desired source or data store.
// You can easily create your own data store for more control!
var connectionString = "Data Source=c:/kbo.db";
var services = new ServiceCollection()
    .AddVivarniCBE(s => s
        .WithSqliteDatabase(connectionString)
        .WithHttpSource("cbe-username", "MySecret")
    );
```
### 4. Import KBO/BCE/CBE data to your local database
Only a single commant to trigger an update/import of your data. This will use partial updates when possible and use the `ICbeSynchronisationStateRegistry` to keep track of which files have been imported. The CBE publishes partial update files on a daily basis. Support for automatic synchronisation via the configuration above is in development.
```csharp
var provider = services.BuildServiceProvider();
var cbeService = provider.GetRequiredService<ICbeService>();
await cbeService.SyncAsync();
```

### 5. Query the data
```csharp
using Dapper;

using var connection = new SqliteConnection(connectionString);
await connection.OpenAsync();

var companies = await connection.QueryAsync<(string Vat, string Name)>(
    "SELECT vat_number AS Vat, name AS Name FROM cbe_companies WHERE name LIKE @q",
    new { q = "%TECH%" }
);

foreach (var row in companies)
{
    Console.WriteLine($"{row.Vat} - {row.Name}");
}
```

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License. Feel free to use it in your projects.

Commit message:

Update README ; mention support for Oracle

README.md, after:

# Vivarni.CBE

A simple, practical solution to import and synchronize KBO/BCE/CBE data into your own database (e.g., SQL Server, Postgres, Sqlite, Oracle, ...). It provides clear source abstractions, extensible storage backends, and synchronization state tracking so your enterprise registers stay reliably up to date. CBE stands for Belgium’s Crossroads Bank for Enterprises and is also known as:

 * Dutch: _Kruispuntbank van Ondernemingen_ 
 * French: _Banque-Carrefour des Entreprises_
 * German: _Zentrale Datenbank der Unternehmen_

The data provided by the CBE is public available at; you simply need an account on the official website to access and download the datasets. Official federal governement website for CBE Open Data: [https://economie.fgov.be/](https://economie.fgov.be/en/themes/enterprises/crossroads-bank-enterprises/services-everyone/public-data-available-reuse/cbe-open-data)

Want to experiment without your own DB? See the sample projects in `sample/`. It demonstrates an end-to-end flow on a local SQLite and Postgres database!

## Features ✨

- 📂 Data Sources: file system and HTTP providers for CBE Open Data.
- 🗄️ Storage Backends: interfaces and implementations for relational DBs (SQL Server, Sqlite).
- 🧩 Easy extensibility to other database types via the `ICbeDataStorage` interface.
- 🧬 Schema & Entities: strongly-typed `Entities` with mappings and descriptors.
- 🔄 Synchronization State: import tracking via `ICbeSynchronisationStateRegistry` implementations.
- 🖥️ A sample application showing end-to-end flow.

## Quickstart 🚀

### 1. Get the data
Create an account on the [official CBE website](https://economie.fgov.be/en/themes/enterprises/crossroads-bank-enterprises/services-everyone/public-data-available-reuse/cbe-open-data). With username/password you can download the public open data.

### 2. Install via NuGet
Consume the package from your own solution via NuGet.

```bash
dotnet add package Vivarni.CBE
dotnet add package Vivarni.CBE.SqlServer # if you're using SQL Server
dotnet add package Vivarni.CBE.Postgres  # if you're using Postgres
dotnet add package Vivarni.CBE.Sqlite    # if you're using Sqlite
dotnet add package Vivarni.CBE.Oracle    # if you're using Oracle
```

### 3. Example (Sqlite)

Configure services and run a sync. Adjust connection string, schema, and source for your environment. You can then

```csharp
using Microsoft.Data.Sqlite;
using Microsoft.Extensions.DependencyInjection;
using Vivarni.CBE;
using Vivarni.CBE.Sqlite;

// Configure Vivarni.CBE with the desired source or data store.
// You can easily create your own data store for more control!
var connectionString = "Data Source=c:/kbo.db";
var services = new ServiceCollection()
    .AddVivarniCBE(s => s
        .WithSqliteDatabase(connectionString)
        .WithHttpSource("cbe-username", "MySecret")
    );
```
### 4. Import KBO/BCE/CBE data to your local database
Only a single commant to trigger an update/import of your data. This will use partial updates when possible and use the `ICbeSynchronisationStateRegistry` to keep track of which files have been imported. The CBE publishes partial update files on a daily basis. Support for automatic synchronisation via the configuration above is in development.
```csharp
var provider = services.BuildServiceProvider();
var cbeService = provider.GetRequiredService<ICbeService>();
await cbeService.SyncAsync();
```

### 5. Query the data
```csharp
using Dapper;

using var connection = new SqliteConnection(connectionString);
await connection.OpenAsync();

var companies = await connection.QueryAsync<(string Vat, string Name)>(
    "SELECT vat_number AS Vat, name AS Name FROM cbe_companies WHERE name LIKE @q",
    new { q = "%TECH%" }
);

foreach (var row in companies)
{
    Console.WriteLine($"{row.Vat} - {row.Name}");
}
```

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License. Feel free to use it in your projects.
